README.md, before:

# Leatherman - a C++ toolkit

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [As a Standalone Library](#as-a-standalone-library)
    - [Building Leatherman](#building-leatherman)
    - [Using Leatherman](#using-leatherman)
  - [As a Submodule](#as-a-submodule)
  - [Variables Set by Leatherman](#variables-set-by-leatherman)
  - [CMake Helpers Provided by Leatherman](#cmake-helpers-provided-by-leatherman)
  - [Internationalization (i18n)](#internationalization-i18n)
    - [Helper Functions](#helper-functions)
    - [Enabling i18n](#enabling-i18n)
    - [Extracting and Translating Text](#extracting-and-translating-text)
    - [Limitations](#limitations)
    - [Debugging](#debugging)
  - [Using Logging](#using-logging)
  - [Using Catch](#using-catch)
  - [Using Windows](#using-windows)
  - [Using JsonContainer](#using-jsoncontainer)
  - [Using curl](#using-curl)
- [Extending Leatherman](#extending-leatherman)
  - [Typical Leatherman Directory Structure](#typical-leatherman-directory-structure)
  - [Sample Library CMakeLists.txt file](#sample-library-cmakeliststxt-file)
  - [Vendoring Other Libraries](#vendoring-other-libraries)
- [How To Release](#how-to-release)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Usage

Leatherman can be used in one of two ways: It can be installed as a
regular library, and included using the normal CMake `find_package`
syntax, or it can be setup as a submodule. The recommended method is
to install Leatherman and use it as a regular system library.

Leatherman is broken up into a number of focused component
libraries. Both methods of using Leatherman allow you to control which
components are built and used.

Library install locations can be controlled using the LIB_SUFFIX
variable, which results in installing libraries to `lib${LIB_SUFFIX}`.

### Dependencies

* Boost, at least version 1.54

### As a Standalone Library

The recommended way to use Leatherman is as a library built and
installed on your system.

#### Building Leatherman

Leatherman is built like any other cmake project:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install

By default, all of the component libraries are built when Leatherman
is used standalone. To disable a component, you can set
`LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_<LIBRARY>` to any of CMake's falsy values.

#### Using Leatherman

Leatherman's `make install` deploys a standard CMake config file to
`lib/cmake/leatherman`. This allows the normal CMake `find_package`
workflow to be used.

    find_package(Leatherman COMPONENTS foo bar baz REQUIRED)

If Leatherman is not installed to a standard system prefix, or on
Windows where there is no standard prefix, you can set
`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` to the location of Leatherman's install.

### As a Submodule

Leatherman can be included as a git submodule and added as a CMake
subdirectory. Consider the following:

    CMakeLists.txt
    lib/
        CMakeLists.txt
    vendor/
        leatherman/

In this setup, your CMakeLists.txt would need to contain the following:

    ...
    add_subdirectory(vendor/leatherman)
    ...

To enable individual Leatherman components, you must set
`LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_<LIBRARY>`. Any libraries not explicitly enabled
will not be built or available to the containing project.

    ...
    set(LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_LOCALE TRUE)
    add_subdirectory(vendor/leatherman)
    ...

### Variables Set by Leatherman

Leatherman sets two top-level CMake variables:

* `LEATHERMAN_INCLUDE_DIRS` The include paths of all enabled
  leatherman libraries
* `LEATHERMAN_LIBRARIES` The library names of all enabled leatherman
  libraries, as well as their dependencies.

In addition, each enabled library sets a number of library-specific
variables:

* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_INCLUDE` The include directory or directories
  for the given leatherman library.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIB` The library name as used by CMake. In the
  case of header-only leatherman libraries, this will be set to the
  empty string.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_DEPS` Any dependency libraries needed by the
  given library. This could include other leatherman libraries or
  3rd-party libraries found via CMake.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIBS` The contents of both
  `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIB` and `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_DEPS`

### CMake Helpers Provided by Leatherman

In addition to the C++ library components, Leatherman provides a few
CMake helpers. These will be automatically added to your
`CMAKE_MODULE_PATH` when `find_package` is processed.

* `options`: Common CMake options for leatherman features. Should
  almost always be used.
* `cflags`: Sets a `LEATHERMAN_CXX_FLAGS` variable containing the
  Puppet Labs standard CXXFLAGS for your compiler and platform.

* `leatherman`: Additional functionality provided by Leatherman for
  consumers. Includes:
  * Helpers for dealing with variables and scopes
  * Debugging macros
  * `cpplint` and `cppcheck` configuration
  * Logging configuration
  * Install command with cross-platform defaults
  * Symbol visibility configuration

* `pod2man`: Adds a `pod2man` macro to generate man files from source.

### Internationalization (i18n)

Leatherman and its components provide support for generating and using
`gettext`-based message catalogs.

#### Helper Functions

Two helpers are provided for generating message catalogs:

* `gettext_templates <dir> <sources>`: creates a `${PROJECT_NAME}.pot`
  target (used by `all`) that (re)generates the .pot file from specified
  source files. If the project is configured with `LEATHERMAN_LOCALES`
  containing a list of language codes, it will add a target
  `${PROJECT_NAME}-${LANG}.po` to create or update translation (.po)
  files matching those codes. Files are put in `dir`. To avoid `make
  clean` deleting these files, look at how the `locales` directory is
  structured.
* `gettext_compile <dir> <inst>`: creates a `translation` target (also
  used by `all`) to generate the binary message catalogs (.mo files) and
  configure installing them to the specified install location (`inst`).

`LEATHERMAN_LOCALES` expects a quoted semi-colon separated list, as
in `LEATHERMAN_LOCALES="en;fr;ja"`.

Normal use of cmake/make should ensure the translation files are up-to-
date. Translations can be tested by setting the `LC_CTYPE` environment
variable.

#### Enabling i18n

By default i18n support is disabled. To enable it, define `LEATHERMAN_I18N`
when compiling your project. To do so, add these two lines to your projects
CMakeLists.txt file below where you have `find_package(LEATHERMAN ...)` and
also below where you do `include(cflags)`.

```
add_definitions(${LEATHERMAN_DEFINITIONS})
add_definitions(-DLEATHERMAN_I18N)
```

By default locale files are installed to `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/share/locale`.
This behavior can be changed to use environment variables for the prefix
instead by defining `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR` and `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL`.
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR` should refer to an environment variable pointing to the
root of the Leatherman install, while `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL` should contain
a path relative to that location, where locale files should be installed and searched
for at run time.

For example, if Leatherman is installed to `C:/tools`, and you would like
to install translation files to `C:/languages/leatherman`, you can create an environment
variable (e.g. `$LEATHERMAN_LOCATION`) containing `C:\tools`, then set
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR=LEATHERMAN_LOCATION` and 
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL=../languages/leatherman`. Then locale files will be installed to
`C:/tools/../languages/leatherman` and at runtime Leatherman will search for locale
files there.

To ensure that consuming projects also install their locale files to the right location,
it is recommended to set `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL` for all projects attempting to use
Leatherman's i18n tooling.

#### Extracting and Translating Text

The format strings in logging (the first argument) will automatically be
extracted for the translation template file and translated. Substitution
arguments will not, and must be explicitly translated.

To translate strings outside of logging, use the `leatherman::locale::translate`
and `leatherman::locale::format` helpers. Strings passed to the helpers will be
extracted to .po files. There are several versions of these helpers:

* Basic version (`translate`, `format`) for most standard translations.
```
translate("Apple");
```
* Pluralized (`translate_n`, `format_n`) when translation depends on number of items.
```
// Note the parameter duplication: The first count value `2` selects the appropriate
// translated message, and the second `2` fills in the `{1}` substitution token.
format_n("{1} Apple", "{1} Apples", 2, 2);
```
* Prefixed-context (`translate_p`, `format_p`) when a word or phrase has multiple meanings.
```
translate_p("Fruit", "Apple")
```
* Pluralized and prefixed-context (`translate_np`, `format_np`)
```
format_np("Fruit", "{1} Apple", "{1} Apples", 3, 3);
```

`leatherman::locale::format` is a replacement for
[`boost::locale::format`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_58_0/libs/locale/doc/html/localized_text_formatting.html),
which adds locale-aware formatting to `boost::format`, but requires
different substitution tokens. To support transparently enabling
`LEATHERMAN_I18N` for only some platforms in a project,
`leatherman::locale::format` falls-back to using `boost::format`, and
will convert substitution tokens using the regex `{(\d+)}` to `%\1%`.
To be safe, assume both formats are special when using `format`, and
use `{N}` in as the substitution token for your strings. If you need to
support both modes and use advanced substitution strings, you'll have
to use an `#ifdef LEATHERMAN_I18N` block to use the correct string.

To use `leatherman::locale::translate` or `leatherman::locale::format`
in your project, add an include to the top of your cpp file:

```
#include <leatherman/locale/locale.hpp>
```

Next, if you would like to use any of the functions, you could do so
by following this example:

```
std::cout << leatherman::locale::translate("This is translated") << std::endl;
std::cout << leatherman::locale::format("This is {1} translated message", 1) << std::endl;
```

Leatherman also provides format helpers with short names: _(), n_(), p_(), np_().
These reduce code disruption when adding i18n support, and naming is consistent with
macros from other i18n libraries.

```
using namespace leatherman::locale;
std::cout << _("This is translated") << std::endl;
std::cout << _("This is {1} translated message", 1) << std::endl;
```

#### Limitations

Note that on Windows when building Leatherman.Locale as a DLL and
Boost.Locale statically, you can get some weird behavior from Boost.Locale.
Avoid using it directly, and ensure all translation operations happen
as part of the Leatherman.Locale DLL memory space (i.e. in source files).

Translation isn't supported on AIX or Solaris, as GCC on those platforms
doesn't support `std::locale`. In fact std::locale is buggy, so avoid
using `get_locale` as well. The CMake option `LEATHERMAN_USE_LOCALES`
can be used to enable or disable building with Boost.Locale and using
`std::locale`.

#### Debugging

If output strings are not being translated, [gettext's FAQ](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/FAQ.html#integrating_noop)
has some suggestions for debugging.
>>>>>>> (maint) Add debugging i18n to README

### Using Logging

Each `.cc` file that uses logging (or includes a header which uses
logging) needs to know its logging namespace. This can be set by
defining `LEATHERMAN_LOGGING_NAMESPACE` to a string such as
"leatherman.logging" or "puppetlabs.facter".

Since typically a large number of files at once will need to use the
same logging namespace, leatherman provides a CMake macro to set it
globally. This can be used as follows:

    ...
    include(leatherman)
    leatherman_logging_namespace("logging.namespace")
    ...

Initializing logging via setup\_logging will configure the ostream
for the default UTF-8 locale (or the specified locale).

### Using Catch

Since [Catch][1] is a testing-only utility, its include directory is
excluded from LEATHERMAN\_INCLUDE\_DIRS. To use Catch, explicitly add

    include_directories(${LEATHERMAN_CATCH_INCLUDE})

to the CMakeLists.txt file of your testing directory.

### Using Windows

In order to use the Windows libraries, Logging must be set up.

### Using JsonContainer

To use JsonContainer, you must enable [RapidJSON][2] that is included
as a leatherman component.
Please refer to the [JsonContainer documentation][3] for API details.

### Using curl

To use the curl wrapper library, libcurl must be installed.

On Ubuntu use the following:

    apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
    
On Windows, in Powershell, use:

    (New-Object net.webclient).DownloadFile("http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.42.1.zip", "C:\tools\curl-7.42.1.zip")
    & 7za x "curl-7.42.1.zip" | FIND /V "ing "
    cd curl-7.42.1
    mkdir -Path C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\include
    cp -r include\curl C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\include
    mkdir -Path C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\lib
    cp lib\libcurl.a C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\lib
    
On Windows CMake must also be manually pointed to the correct directory by passing the argument 
`-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh`.

## Extending Leatherman

Adding a new library to leatherman is easy!

* Add a new subdirectory with the name of your library
* Add an appropriate `add_leatherman_dir` invocation to the top-level
  `CMakeLists.txt`
* Fill in the headers, sources, and tests of your library. The typical
  directory structure is below.

The `CmakeLists.txt` file for a library is used both at build time and
during a `find_package` call for Leatherman. This allows library
dependencies to be handled identically during both build and find
operations. Because of this, certain build configuration settings
might need to be gated on a check for `BUILDING_LEATHERMAN`. See the
`logging` library for an example of how this is done.

### Typical Leatherman Directory Structure

    leatherman/
        libname/
            CMakeLists.txt
            src/
                srcfile.cc
            inc/leatherman/
                header.hpp
            tests/
                testfile.cc

### Sample Library CMakeLists.txt file

    add_leatherman_library("src/srcfile.cc")
    add_leatherman_test("tests/testfile.cc")
    add_leatherman_headers("inc/leatherman")

More complex libraries may have dependencies. See the `locale` library
for a simple example of how dependencies are handled by leatherman
libraries.

### Vendoring Other Libraries

Sometimes it's necessary to vendor a 3rd-party library in
Leatherman. In these cases the standard Leatherman macros probably
won't help you, and you'll need to write a lower-level CMake
file. This README can't cover all the possible situations here, but
the `nowide` and `catch` CMake files are both solid examples.

## How To Release

1. Update [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) with release notes based on
``git log `git describe --abbrev=0 --tags`..HEAD``
1. Update the version in the project declaration of [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt)
1. Build with gettext to ensure translations are up-to-date
1. `git tag -s <version> -m '<version>' && git push <puppetlabs> refs/tags/<version>`
1. Send out an announcement e-mail

[1]: https://github.com/philsquared/Catch
[2]: https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson
[3]: json_container/README.md

Commit message:

(OSPTE-212) Update README.md for archiving repository

README.md, after:

# Leatherman - a C++ toolkit

This repository is archived and Perforce will no longer be updating this repository. For more information, see [this Puppet blog post](https://www.puppet.com/blog/open-source-puppet-updates-2025).

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
  - [As a Standalone Library](#as-a-standalone-library)
    - [Building Leatherman](#building-leatherman)
    - [Using Leatherman](#using-leatherman)
  - [As a Submodule](#as-a-submodule)
  - [Variables Set by Leatherman](#variables-set-by-leatherman)
  - [CMake Helpers Provided by Leatherman](#cmake-helpers-provided-by-leatherman)
  - [Internationalization (i18n)](#internationalization-i18n)
    - [Helper Functions](#helper-functions)
    - [Enabling i18n](#enabling-i18n)
    - [Extracting and Translating Text](#extracting-and-translating-text)
    - [Limitations](#limitations)
    - [Debugging](#debugging)
  - [Using Logging](#using-logging)
  - [Using Catch](#using-catch)
  - [Using Windows](#using-windows)
  - [Using JsonContainer](#using-jsoncontainer)
  - [Using curl](#using-curl)
- [Extending Leatherman](#extending-leatherman)
  - [Typical Leatherman Directory Structure](#typical-leatherman-directory-structure)
  - [Sample Library CMakeLists.txt file](#sample-library-cmakeliststxt-file)
  - [Vendoring Other Libraries](#vendoring-other-libraries)
- [How To Release](#how-to-release)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Usage

Leatherman can be used in one of two ways: It can be installed as a
regular library, and included using the normal CMake `find_package`
syntax, or it can be setup as a submodule. The recommended method is
to install Leatherman and use it as a regular system library.

Leatherman is broken up into a number of focused component
libraries. Both methods of using Leatherman allow you to control which
components are built and used.

Library install locations can be controlled using the LIB_SUFFIX
variable, which results in installing libraries to `lib${LIB_SUFFIX}`.

### Dependencies

* Boost, at least version 1.54

### As a Standalone Library

The recommended way to use Leatherman is as a library built and
installed on your system.

#### Building Leatherman

Leatherman is built like any other cmake project:

    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make
    sudo make install

By default, all of the component libraries are built when Leatherman
is used standalone. To disable a component, you can set
`LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_<LIBRARY>` to any of CMake's falsy values.

#### Using Leatherman

Leatherman's `make install` deploys a standard CMake config file to
`lib/cmake/leatherman`. This allows the normal CMake `find_package`
workflow to be used.

    find_package(Leatherman COMPONENTS foo bar baz REQUIRED)

If Leatherman is not installed to a standard system prefix, or on
Windows where there is no standard prefix, you can set
`CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH` to the location of Leatherman's install.

### As a Submodule

Leatherman can be included as a git submodule and added as a CMake
subdirectory. Consider the following:

    CMakeLists.txt
    lib/
        CMakeLists.txt
    vendor/
        leatherman/

In this setup, your CMakeLists.txt would need to contain the following:

    ...
    add_subdirectory(vendor/leatherman)
    ...

To enable individual Leatherman components, you must set
`LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_<LIBRARY>`. Any libraries not explicitly enabled
will not be built or available to the containing project.

    ...
    set(LEATHERMAN_ENABLE_LOCALE TRUE)
    add_subdirectory(vendor/leatherman)
    ...

### Variables Set by Leatherman

Leatherman sets two top-level CMake variables:

* `LEATHERMAN_INCLUDE_DIRS` The include paths of all enabled
  leatherman libraries
* `LEATHERMAN_LIBRARIES` The library names of all enabled leatherman
  libraries, as well as their dependencies.

In addition, each enabled library sets a number of library-specific
variables:

* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_INCLUDE` The include directory or directories
  for the given leatherman library.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIB` The library name as used by CMake. In the
  case of header-only leatherman libraries, this will be set to the
  empty string.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_DEPS` Any dependency libraries needed by the
  given library. This could include other leatherman libraries or
  3rd-party libraries found via CMake.
* `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIBS` The contents of both
  `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_LIB` and `LEATHERMAN_<LIBRARY>_DEPS`

### CMake Helpers Provided by Leatherman

In addition to the C++ library components, Leatherman provides a few
CMake helpers. These will be automatically added to your
`CMAKE_MODULE_PATH` when `find_package` is processed.

* `options`: Common CMake options for leatherman features. Should
  almost always be used.
* `cflags`: Sets a `LEATHERMAN_CXX_FLAGS` variable containing the
  Puppet Labs standard CXXFLAGS for your compiler and platform.

* `leatherman`: Additional functionality provided by Leatherman for
  consumers. Includes:
  * Helpers for dealing with variables and scopes
  * Debugging macros
  * `cpplint` and `cppcheck` configuration
  * Logging configuration
  * Install command with cross-platform defaults
  * Symbol visibility configuration

* `pod2man`: Adds a `pod2man` macro to generate man files from source.

### Internationalization (i18n)

Leatherman and its components provide support for generating and using
`gettext`-based message catalogs.

#### Helper Functions

Two helpers are provided for generating message catalogs:

* `gettext_templates <dir> <sources>`: creates a `${PROJECT_NAME}.pot`
  target (used by `all`) that (re)generates the .pot file from specified
  source files. If the project is configured with `LEATHERMAN_LOCALES`
  containing a list of language codes, it will add a target
  `${PROJECT_NAME}-${LANG}.po` to create or update translation (.po)
  files matching those codes. Files are put in `dir`. To avoid `make
  clean` deleting these files, look at how the `locales` directory is
  structured.
* `gettext_compile <dir> <inst>`: creates a `translation` target (also
  used by `all`) to generate the binary message catalogs (.mo files) and
  configure installing them to the specified install location (`inst`).

`LEATHERMAN_LOCALES` expects a quoted semi-colon separated list, as
in `LEATHERMAN_LOCALES="en;fr;ja"`.

Normal use of cmake/make should ensure the translation files are up-to-
date. Translations can be tested by setting the `LC_CTYPE` environment
variable.

#### Enabling i18n

By default i18n support is disabled. To enable it, define `LEATHERMAN_I18N`
when compiling your project. To do so, add these two lines to your projects
CMakeLists.txt file below where you have `find_package(LEATHERMAN ...)` and
also below where you do `include(cflags)`.

```
add_definitions(${LEATHERMAN_DEFINITIONS})
add_definitions(-DLEATHERMAN_I18N)
```

By default locale files are installed to `${CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX}/share/locale`.
This behavior can be changed to use environment variables for the prefix
instead by defining `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR` and `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL`.
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR` should refer to an environment variable pointing to the
root of the Leatherman install, while `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL` should contain
a path relative to that location, where locale files should be installed and searched
for at run time.

For example, if Leatherman is installed to `C:/tools`, and you would like
to install translation files to `C:/languages/leatherman`, you can create an environment
variable (e.g. `$LEATHERMAN_LOCATION`) containing `C:\tools`, then set
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_VAR=LEATHERMAN_LOCATION` and 
`LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL=../languages/leatherman`. Then locale files will be installed to
`C:/tools/../languages/leatherman` and at runtime Leatherman will search for locale
files there.

To ensure that consuming projects also install their locale files to the right location,
it is recommended to set `LEATHERMAN_LOCALE_INSTALL` for all projects attempting to use
Leatherman's i18n tooling.

#### Extracting and Translating Text

The format strings in logging (the first argument) will automatically be
extracted for the translation template file and translated. Substitution
arguments will not, and must be explicitly translated.

To translate strings outside of logging, use the `leatherman::locale::translate`
and `leatherman::locale::format` helpers. Strings passed to the helpers will be
extracted to .po files. There are several versions of these helpers:

* Basic version (`translate`, `format`) for most standard translations.
```
translate("Apple");
```
* Pluralized (`translate_n`, `format_n`) when translation depends on number of items.
```
// Note the parameter duplication: The first count value `2` selects the appropriate
// translated message, and the second `2` fills in the `{1}` substitution token.
format_n("{1} Apple", "{1} Apples", 2, 2);
```
* Prefixed-context (`translate_p`, `format_p`) when a word or phrase has multiple meanings.
```
translate_p("Fruit", "Apple")
```
* Pluralized and prefixed-context (`translate_np`, `format_np`)
```
format_np("Fruit", "{1} Apple", "{1} Apples", 3, 3);
```

`leatherman::locale::format` is a replacement for
[`boost::locale::format`](http://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_58_0/libs/locale/doc/html/localized_text_formatting.html),
which adds locale-aware formatting to `boost::format`, but requires
different substitution tokens. To support transparently enabling
`LEATHERMAN_I18N` for only some platforms in a project,
`leatherman::locale::format` falls-back to using `boost::format`, and
will convert substitution tokens using the regex `{(\d+)}` to `%\1%`.
To be safe, assume both formats are special when using `format`, and
use `{N}` in as the substitution token for your strings. If you need to
support both modes and use advanced substitution strings, you'll have
to use an `#ifdef LEATHERMAN_I18N` block to use the correct string.

To use `leatherman::locale::translate` or `leatherman::locale::format`
in your project, add an include to the top of your cpp file:

```
#include <leatherman/locale/locale.hpp>
```

Next, if you would like to use any of the functions, you could do so
by following this example:

```
std::cout << leatherman::locale::translate("This is translated") << std::endl;
std::cout << leatherman::locale::format("This is {1} translated message", 1) << std::endl;
```

Leatherman also provides format helpers with short names: _(), n_(), p_(), np_().
These reduce code disruption when adding i18n support, and naming is consistent with
macros from other i18n libraries.

```
using namespace leatherman::locale;
std::cout << _("This is translated") << std::endl;
std::cout << _("This is {1} translated message", 1) << std::endl;
```

#### Limitations

Note that on Windows when building Leatherman.Locale as a DLL and
Boost.Locale statically, you can get some weird behavior from Boost.Locale.
Avoid using it directly, and ensure all translation operations happen
as part of the Leatherman.Locale DLL memory space (i.e. in source files).

Translation isn't supported on AIX or Solaris, as GCC on those platforms
doesn't support `std::locale`. In fact std::locale is buggy, so avoid
using `get_locale` as well. The CMake option `LEATHERMAN_USE_LOCALES`
can be used to enable or disable building with Boost.Locale and using
`std::locale`.

#### Debugging

If output strings are not being translated, [gettext's FAQ](https://www.gnu.org/software/gettext/FAQ.html#integrating_noop)
has some suggestions for debugging.
>>>>>>> (maint) Add debugging i18n to README

### Using Logging

Each `.cc` file that uses logging (or includes a header which uses
logging) needs to know its logging namespace. This can be set by
defining `LEATHERMAN_LOGGING_NAMESPACE` to a string such as
"leatherman.logging" or "puppetlabs.facter".

Since typically a large number of files at once will need to use the
same logging namespace, leatherman provides a CMake macro to set it
globally. This can be used as follows:

    ...
    include(leatherman)
    leatherman_logging_namespace("logging.namespace")
    ...

Initializing logging via setup\_logging will configure the ostream
for the default UTF-8 locale (or the specified locale).

### Using Catch

Since [Catch][1] is a testing-only utility, its include directory is
excluded from LEATHERMAN\_INCLUDE\_DIRS. To use Catch, explicitly add

    include_directories(${LEATHERMAN_CATCH_INCLUDE})

to the CMakeLists.txt file of your testing directory.

### Using Windows

In order to use the Windows libraries, Logging must be set up.

### Using JsonContainer

To use JsonContainer, you must enable [RapidJSON][2] that is included
as a leatherman component.
Please refer to the [JsonContainer documentation][3] for API details.

### Using curl

To use the curl wrapper library, libcurl must be installed.

On Ubuntu use the following:

    apt-get install libcurl4-openssl-dev
    
On Windows, in Powershell, use:

    (New-Object net.webclient).DownloadFile("http://curl.haxx.se/download/curl-7.42.1.zip", "C:\tools\curl-7.42.1.zip")
    & 7za x "curl-7.42.1.zip" | FIND /V "ing "
    cd curl-7.42.1
    mkdir -Path C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\include
    cp -r include\curl C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\include
    mkdir -Path C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\lib
    cp lib\libcurl.a C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh\lib
    
On Windows CMake must also be manually pointed to the correct directory by passing the argument 
`-DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH="C:\tools\curl-7.42.1-x86_64_mingw-w64_4.8.4_win32_seh`.

## Extending Leatherman

Adding a new library to leatherman is easy!

* Add a new subdirectory with the name of your library
* Add an appropriate `add_leatherman_dir` invocation to the top-level
  `CMakeLists.txt`
* Fill in the headers, sources, and tests of your library. The typical
  directory structure is below.

The `CmakeLists.txt` file for a library is used both at build time and
during a `find_package` call for Leatherman. This allows library
dependencies to be handled identically during both build and find
operations. Because of this, certain build configuration settings
might need to be gated on a check for `BUILDING_LEATHERMAN`. See the
`logging` library for an example of how this is done.

### Typical Leatherman Directory Structure

    leatherman/
        libname/
            CMakeLists.txt
            src/
                srcfile.cc
            inc/leatherman/
                header.hpp
            tests/
                testfile.cc

### Sample Library CMakeLists.txt file

    add_leatherman_library("src/srcfile.cc")
    add_leatherman_test("tests/testfile.cc")
    add_leatherman_headers("inc/leatherman")

More complex libraries may have dependencies. See the `locale` library
for a simple example of how dependencies are handled by leatherman
libraries.

### Vendoring Other Libraries

Sometimes it's necessary to vendor a 3rd-party library in
Leatherman. In these cases the standard Leatherman macros probably
won't help you, and you'll need to write a lower-level CMake
file. This README can't cover all the possible situations here, but
the `nowide` and `catch` CMake files are both solid examples.

## How To Release

1. Update [CHANGELOG.md](CHANGELOG.md) with release notes based on
``git log `git describe --abbrev=0 --tags`..HEAD``
1. Update the version in the project declaration of [CMakeLists.txt](CMakeLists.txt)
1. Build with gettext to ensure translations are up-to-date
1. `git tag -s <version> -m '<version>' && git push <puppetlabs> refs/tags/<version>`
1. Send out an announcement e-mail

[1]: https://github.com/philsquared/Catch
[2]: https://github.com/miloyip/rapidjson
[3]: json_container/README.md
